# Components

Nuxt forms comes with headless components that can be used to easily create forms.


## `<NuxtForm />`

This component is a form wrapper of the native HTML `<Form />` tag. It integrates the composable `useForm` to provide a headless solution to use this library.

### `Usage`

```vue
<template>
  <NuxtForm>
    <!-- form fields -->
  </NuxtForm>
</template>
```

### `Props`

- `v-model`: Add a ref or fetched data as an object to the form. These data will be set as initial data to the fields that match the given key. Default `null`

- `clearOnSubmit`: Clear form data on submit. Default `false`

- `validate`: Add form validator. Currently this library provides the following validator adapters `zod`, `valibot`, `rules` and `custom`

### `Slots`

- `reset` A function that can be called to reset the current form.

- `error` All current errors that are available after validation of the form.

- `valid` Boolean entry that shows whether the form is valid after validation.

- `updated` A boolean entry that indicates whether the form has been updated or not.


## `<Field />`

```vue
<template>
  <NuxtForm>
      <Field 
        v-slot="{ valid, errors, updateValue, value}" 
        name="email" 
        :validate-on-change="true">
        <label>
          Email
          <input type="email" :value="value" :aria-invalid="!valid ? true : undefined" @input="event => updateValue((event.target as HTMLInputElement).value)">
          <small v-if="!valid">{{ errors[0] }}</small>
        </label>
      </Field>
      <Field 
        v-slot="{ valid, errors, updateValue, value}" 
        name="password">
        <label>
          Password
          <input type="password" :value="value" :aria-invalid="!valid ? true : undefined" @input="event => updateValue((event.target as HTMLInputElement).value)">
          <small v-if="!valid">{{ errors[0] }}</small>
        </label>
      </Field>
  </NuxtForm>
</template>
```

### `Props`

- `v-model`: Add a ref or fetched data as an entry to the form. These data will be set as initial data to the field. Entries given to the Field object have a higher priority than form data entries. Default `null`

- `validate`: Add form validator. Currently this library provides the following validator adapters `zod`, `valibot`, `rules` and `custom`

- `validate-on-change`: Boolean entry that determines whether the field object is validated when the update function is triggered. Default `false`

- `bindFormData`: Boolean entry that determines whether current form data is queried at each validation. This should only be activated if the affected field really needs to know what the current value of another field is. For example for a field "re-enter password". Default `false`

### `Slots`

- `updateValue`: A function that can be called to update current values of the field.

- `value`: The current value of the field.

- `errors`: All current errors that are available after validation of the relevant field.

- `valid`: Boolean entry that shows whether the current field is valid after validation.